Programming Languages
Basic: The name is short for Beginner's All-purpose Symbolic Instruction Code. It was developed by John George Kemeny and Thomas Eugene Kurtz at Dartmouth in 1964. It was designed with the intent of giving the non-science people an access to computers. It became popular in the 1970s and the '80s. Microsoft Visual Basic is based on Basic. Some dialects of BASIC are compiled computer languages.
VB ( or Visual Basic ) Visual Basic is an interpreted, multi-paradigm language developed by Microsoft Corporation for the Windows platform. It has been evolving over the years and is seen as a direct descendant of Microsoft's old BASIC from the 1970's. Visual Basic is a good language for scripting Windows applications that do not need the power and speed of C#. 


C: C is a compiled, procedural language developed in 1972 by Dennis Ritchie for use in the UNIX operating system. Although designed to be portable in nature, C programs must be specifically compiled for computers with different architectures and operating systems. This helps make them lightning fast. Although C is a relatively old language, it is still widely used for system programming, writing other programming languages, and in embedded systems. 


C++: It consists of a combination of high-level and low-level language features and is hence considered as a middle-level programming language. Bjarne Stroustrup of Bell Labs developed C++ as an extension of the C language. Originally known as 'C with Classes', it came to be known as C++ from 1983. It is a multi-paradigm language that supports procedural programming, generic programming, object-oriented programming, and data abstraction.

C#: C Sharp is a multi-paradigm programming language that supports imperative, generic and object-oriented programming. It is a part of the Microsoft .NET Framework. It is similar to C++ in its object-oriented syntax and is also influenced by Java and Delphi. Polyphonic C# extends C#. MC# is an extension of Polyphonic C# that can work on the .NET platform. C-omega is an extension to C# that succeeded Polyphonic C#. It enables access to data stores and includes constructs that support concurrent programming.

Fortran: It is a procedural, imperative, general purpose computer programming language that works well for scientific computations and numeric operations. After IBM developed it in the 1950s, it soon gained popularity in programming. It is very popular in the field of high-performance computing. It is a structured and compiled programming language that is a subset of Fortran95. Fortran 2003, a revised version of Fortran supports object-oriented programming.

Java: Sun Microsystems developed Java and released it in 1995 as a part of the Java platform. Java applications are compiled to bytecode, which can run on any virtual machine, thus making Java programs platform-independent. It is a very popular language of the modern times. Groovy is an object-oriented programming language for the Java platform. It is a dynamic programming language, which can also be used as a scripting language. Join Java is a programming language that extends Java by adding join methods, asynchronous methods, and order class modifiers to Java. X10 is a computer programming language developed by IBM that supports parallel programming, arrays and concurrency. It is seen as an extended subset of Java.

PHP: PHP uses a run-time interpreter, and is a multi-paradigm language originally developed in 1996 by Rasmus Lerdorf to create dynamic web pages. At first it was not even a real programming language, but over time it eventually grew into a fully featured object-oriented programming language. Although PHP has been much criticized in the past for being a bit sloppy and insecure, it's been pretty good since version 5 came out in 2004. It's hard to argue with success. Today, PHP is the most popular language used to write web applications. Even English 4 IT, the program you are currently using, is written in PHP ;) 

Python : Python is an interpreted, multi-paradigm programming language written by Guido van Rossum in the late 1980's and intended for general programming purposes. Python was not named after the snake but actually after the Monty Python comedy group. Python is characterized by its use of indentation for readability, and its encouragement for elegant code by making developers do similar things in similar ways. Python is used as the main programming choice of both Google and Ubuntu.


